[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Does anybody notice something
different about this program than it was
before, when we were
printing out Hello World?
>> Kyle: Anybody see the difference?
>> Speaker 2: There's
an extra new line there.
>> Kyle: There's an extra new line.
Why is that?
Anybody have a guess?
>> Speaker 3: The string [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle: Console.log does put a new line,
but why is there an extra new line?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle: Cuz the file has one.
Because most people know that you're
supposed to put trailing new lines.
You're not supposed to have a missing
trailing new line in your files.
So when I created test.txt,
there was a trailing new line there.
That's just something to be aware of.
That if using console.log, and
you're pulling in contents from files.
It's gonna print out everything that it
got, including that trailing newline.
It's not going to do anything special,
like stripping that off for you.
It's not a big deal.
We'll leave that one alone.
So right now, if we go back and
kind of look at where we're at.
We have a wholly separate file in our
file system that's acting as a module.
That is the primary starting point for
the path that you need to take for
organizing your Node.js code.
You wanna create things in terms of
different modules for different tasks.
Now you notice that when I discuss this,
I didn't talk anything at all about
delegation, or prototypes,
or any of that other stuff.
Those are things that JavaScript
obviously has available to it.
And you could take advantage of
those patterns if you wanted to.
But the most natural kind of easy,
without any kind of friction, path here
is to just simply put your code in a file
and load it with the require system.
Which lends itself to the module
pattern a lot more so
than it does to the prototype or
even the delegation pattern.
That even further shows you
the evidence of why I said, yesterday.
95% of the time, or more,
I just do things with modules.
Because that's just the way you most
naturally work with these things.
It's possible inside of this module for
you to go to all kinds of trouble to write
classes, and inheritance, and all that.
If that's how you feel
like you wanna do it.
The way we're gonna organize our
code inside of Node.js is through
the require module system
>> Kyle: Let's take one more step with
this first file and
we'll be done with 1.js.
And that'll be a good,
natural place for us to stop.
We did say that, in general, you wanna
try to avoid synchronous blocking API.
So even though this is a console program,
let's try to get the better practice
of dealing with things asynchronously.
Most of the API's that Node will provide
to us provides us both the Sync form.
Like we saw there, the S-Y-N-C.
Or, if you take that part off,
It'll do the exact same thing,
except the last parameter.
You'll wanna pass a callback function.
>> Kyle: So now I've got a callback
that's gonna receive the contents.
And what do I wanna do with that?
Well, I did wanna return those
back to the calling program.
I didn't wanna do the console.log myself.
I did wanna return them back
to the calling program.
But now that it's gonna
do things asynchronously,
this is gonna be more awkward.
Cuz I can't do a return statement here and
give you the stuff back synchronously.
So now we get into if you follow
the natural pattern of Node,
the natural pattern of Node is
to do things with callbacks.
I'm gonna argue, as we go on
throughout the rest of the day,
that I think it's better to use promises.
And I'm going to show you how to do that.
But the natural, no-friction path in Node
is just do everything with a callback.
We would pass in a callback
to our little say function.
And, rather than making one,
we could just say that callback
will be called with the contents.
>> Kyle: Everybody see how we did that?
Now, we go back to 1.js.
>> Kyle: And rather than receiving
the contents as a return,
as a synchronous return,
we're gonna have it say hello.say.
And we're gonna have to have a callback
function that receives those contents
>> Kyle: and prints them out.
>> Kyle: If you save that code now,
and run it again.
Oops.
>> Kyle: I caught myself accidentally, but
this is actually a really
good segue to something.
There is a style of callbacks in
Node that is extremely common.
It's not true of everything, but
it's like 99 % of all callbacks in node,
use what we call
the error-first callback syntax.
Many people call it Node-style callbacks.
I think that's a bad name because this
syntax is used elsewhere besides Node.
The error-first callback is that the first
parameter is always reserved for an error.
We gotta make sure that we're
passing along that error or
it'll be empty when there is no error.
We come here to our command line again,
and we tried it again, and
then it'll work.
>> Kyle: Now, what about this error thing?
What happens if I type in just test,
or if I just say test.txt2?
Like I give it a filename
that doesn't exist.
[SOUND] Bad node error.
It's doing that same thing as before.
I didn't get any contents.
Well, that's because I didn't
handle the error condition.
Remember, this error thing
is being provided to us so
that we can handle the error condition.
We would probably wanna put
in an if statement that says,
if the error is present,
then we want to handle that error.
You can do console.error by the way,
and that will automatically print
to the standard error stream.
So console.error, err, and
then print out whatever you were provided.
Otherwise, we're gonna assume success and
print out the contents.
That is the most canonical and common way
that you handle callbacks in JavaScript,
with the error-first style
>> Kyle: If
we save that code out,
>> Kyle: and
we run it again with a file
that does not exist.
We're gonna immediately get an error back
that says, test.txt2 does not exist.
It's that error interrupt.
I lied and said that we were done,
cuz there's one more thing
I want to do to the 1.js.
Because we're dealing with callbacks,
we already have our asynchronicity.
That means we can do
asynchronicity even more directly.
>> Kyle: Inside of our Hello World,
rather than calling,
let me see here what I was doing.
>> Kyle: I know what it's doing.
Okay.
Rather than calling this fs.readFile,
here.
What I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna immediately call.
I'm gonna put my own
wrapper function on it.
>> Kyle: I wanna immediately check for
an error.
And if there's an error,
I want to immediately call
the callback with that error.
But if there was no error,
then I want to delay the response.
This is simulating something like,
I got something from a file.
Now I wanna go make an AJAX request,
or I wanna make a database call, or
something like that.
So I'm going to delay
sending out the response
back with the contents in
it by 1,000 milliseconds.
Actually, since I know error is there,
I can just do null to be even more clear.
There's no error that we're passing along.
>> Kyle: I'll leave that code up for just
a second so you guys can copy it down.
>> Kyle: What we're doing here is
asynchronously reading in the file.
When we get the contents back, which could
take a couple milliseconds for it to do.
When we get the contents back, we then
check to make sure that it was successful.
If it was not successful,
we immediately error out.
But if it was successful,
we simulate going and
doing some other asynchronous thing.
In this case, we use a timer to simulate
something like a database call.
So now,
when we switch back to our command line.
I'll clear my command line.
When we run our code with an error file
in it, we immediately get an error back.
But when I run our code with a real
file that is going to succeed,
it waits one second before
it prints the output to us.
>> Kyle: Did everybody get to that point?
>> Kyle: Take a moment and
take, what's that?
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle: Yeah.
Take a moment and
take stock of where we've come so far.
You already are writing, I mean, I know
it's silly, stupid, Hello World stuff.
But you're already writing
non-trivial Node logic.
You're handling asynchronicity.
You're handling error conditions.
You're handling printing out a help.
You're handling parsing
your command lines.
You're doing real tasks that
you can use in your real-world,
every day coding to write
real Node programs.
And we haven't even scratched the surface
of the stuff that we're gonna get to
after launch.